
  
    


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
October 2, 2020

 

COLUMBIA, S.C. — The South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) announced today that 23,902 COVID-19 test results have been updated and reflected in our online dashboard by the date the result was reported to the health care provide. This includes 22,423 negative test results and 1,479 positive test results.
 
The delay in these electronic lab reports (ELRs) being updated in the agency's internal database occurred from Sept. 24-Oct. 2 and did not impact patient notification of their test results. Test results continued to be reported back to health care providers and relayed to patients, per standard practice.
 
In an effort to make improvements to DHEC's internal process for ELR reporting, a technical update to the database resulted in unexpected delays for ELRs being fully included in our daily reports from Sept. 24-Oct 2. The issue has been resolved and testing and case numbers will resume normal reporting beginning tomorrow. A list of these delayed test results for each day impacted by the database issue, Sept. 24-Oct. 2, is being compiled and will be provided for a clear breakdown by day. 
 
To view the updates to historical test numbers and cases, please view the county dashboard on DHEC's website.
 

Latest COVID-19 Update (October 2, 2020) 

Today, the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) announced 256 new confirmed cases and 67 new probable cases of the novel coronavirus COVID-19, 12 additional confirmed deaths and 1 new probable death.

This brings the total number of confirmed cases to 144,366, probable cases to 4,819, confirmed deaths to 3,211, and 198 probable deaths.

Confirmed and probable cases: please click here.
Confirmed and probable deaths: please click here.

Who Should Get Tested? 
If you are out and about in the community, around others, or not able to socially distance or wear a mask, we recommend that you get tested at least once a month. 

Routine testing allows public health workers to diagnose those who are asymptomatic and interrupt the ongoing spread of the virus. Learn more about who should get tested here.

454 Testing Opportunities Available Statewide
Testing for COVID-19 is essential because it helps identify people who are infected with the virus, whether they have symptoms or not.

DHEC is working with community partners to set up mobile testing clinics and make testing available in communities across the state. Currently, there are 131 mobile testing events scheduled through November 23 and there are 323 permanent COVID-19 testing facilities across the state. Find a testing clinic or event near you at scdhec.gov/covid19testing.

Testing in South Carolina
As of yesterday, a total of 1,456,415 tests have been conducted in the state. See a detailed breakdown of tests in South Carolina on the Data and Projections webpage. DHEC’s Public Health Laboratory is operating extended hours and is testing specimens seven days a week, and the Public Health Laboratory’s current timeframe for providing results to health care providers is 24-48 hours.

Percent Positive
The total number of individual test results reported to DHEC yesterday statewide was 1,670 (not including antibody tests) and the percent positive was 15.3%.

Hospital Bed Occupancy
Hospitals report their information each day to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services by way of TeleTracking, and that same reporting is also provided to DHEC. Click here to view data from today's TeleTracking report.


COVID-19 Information
For the latest information related to COVID-19 visit scdhec.gov/COVID-19. Visit scdmh.net for stress, anxiety and mental health resources from the S.C. Department of Mental Health.

*As new information is provided to the department, some changes in cases may occur. Cases are reported based on the person’s county of residence, as it is provided to the department. DHEC’s COVID-19 map will adjust to reflect any reclassified cases.

###


 

  
