
  
    


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
September 26, 2020

 

COLUMBIA, S.C. —  Today, the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) announced 639 new confirmed cases and 22 new probable cases of the novel coronavirus COVID-19, 27 additional confirmed deaths and no new probable deaths.

This brings the total number of confirmed cases to 141,338, probable cases to 3,935, confirmed deaths to 3,141, and 182 probable deaths.

Confirmed and probable cases: please click here.
Confirmed and probable deaths: please click here.

On Sept. 25, Clemson University’s lab reported more than 15,000 negative and positive test results to DHEC, which includes approximately 500 individual positive results. These results cover a time frame of June 6-September 25. These results have been uploaded into DHEC's database and are reflected in our online data. These tests are reflected in our historical data based on the date the test result was reported to the health care provider and should have also been reported to DHEC.

DHEC continues to reiterate to labs that positive and negative labs are required to be reported to DHEC within 24 hours. The overwhelming majority of labs and facilities are reporting their positive and negative results to DHEC, as required. If we were to have issues with the same lab or facility delaying its test results to us, we may take enforcement actions as necessary. This 24-hour time frame allows the agency to take expedient actions in protecting the health and well-being of South Carolinians.

On September 28, a clarification about Clemson University’s recent COVID-19 test results was issued. Click here for more information.

Who Should Get Tested?
If you are out and about in the community, around others, or not able to socially distance or wear a mask, we recommend that you get tested at least once a month.

Routine testing allows public health workers to diagnose those who are asymptomatic and interrupt the ongoing spread of the virus. Learn more about who should get tested here.

More than 590 Testing Opportunities Available Statewide
Testing for COVID-19 is essential because it helps identify people who are infected with the virus, whether they have symptoms or not.

DHEC is working with community partners to set up mobile testing clinics and make testing available in communities across the state. Currently, there are 336 mobile testing events scheduled through October 31 and there are 257 permanent COVID-19 testing facilities across the state. Find a testing clinic or event near you at scdhec.gov/covid19testing.

Testing in South Carolina
As of yesterday, a total of 1,352,583 tests have been conducted in the state. See a detailed breakdown of tests in South Carolina on the Data and Projections webpage. DHEC’s Public Health Laboratory is operating extended hours and is testing specimens seven days a week, and the Public Health Laboratory’s current timeframe for providing results to health care providers is 24-48 hours.

Percent Positive
The total number of individual test results reported to DHEC yesterday statewide was 6,451 (not including antibody tests) and the percent positive was 9.9%.

Hospital Bed Occupancy
Hospitals report their information each day to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services by way of TeleTracking, and that same reporting is also provided to DHEC. Click here to view data from today's TeleTracking report.


COVID-19 Information
For the latest information related to COVID-19 visit scdhec.gov/COVID-19. Visit scdmh.net for stress, anxiety and mental health resources from the S.C. Department of Mental Health.

*As new information is provided to the department, some changes in cases may occur. Cases are reported based on the person’s county of residence, as it is provided to the department. DHEC’s COVID-19 map will adjust to reflect any reclassified cases.

###


 

  
