
  
    


FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
September 28, 2020

 

COLUMBIA, S.C. —  Today, the South Carolina Department of Health and Environmental Control (DHEC) announced 542 new confirmed cases and 12 new probable cases of the novel coronavirus COVID-19, 10 additional confirmed deaths and 1 new probable death.

This brings the total number of confirmed cases to 142,449, probable cases to 4,006, confirmed deaths to 3,154, and 183 probable deaths.

Confirmed and probable cases: please click here.
Confirmed and probable deaths: please click here.

Clarification about Clemson University’s recent COVID-19 test results
After further review and discussions with Clemson University and Rymedi, the lab performing COVID-19 testing for Clemson since September 13, we are clarifying our September 26 release regarding the university’s recent COVID-19 test results.  
 
Since September 26, Rymedi began providing the university's COVID-19 test results to DHEC. However, it wasn't until today that Rymedi completed their reporting of 18,866 test results to DHEC, which includes 18,051 negative, 813 positive and two inconclusive test results. These results cover a time frame of September 10-September 28. Today, these results will be uploaded into DHEC's database and will be reflected in our online data tomorrow. These tests will be reflected in our historical data based on the date the test result was reported to the health care provider and should have also been reported to DHEC. 
 
Rymedi will report the university’s tests results to DHEC daily moving forward, and the lab will be able to report test results within the required 24 hour time frame. 

Who Should Get Tested?
If you are out and about in the community, around others, or not able to socially distance or wear a mask, we recommend that you get tested at least once a month.


Routine testing allows public health workers to diagnose those who are asymptomatic and interrupt the ongoing spread of the virus. Learn more about who should get tested here.

572 Testing Opportunities Available Statewide
Testing for COVID-19 is essential because it helps identify people who are infected with the virus, whether they have symptoms or not.

DHEC is working with community partners to set up mobile testing clinics and make testing available in communities across the state. Currently, there are 315 mobile testing events scheduled through October 31 and there are 257 permanent COVID-19 testing facilities across the state. Find a testing clinic or event near you at scdhec.gov/covid19testing.

Testing in South Carolina
As of yesterday, a total of 1,386,564 tests have been conducted in the state. See a detailed breakdown of tests in South Carolina on the Data and Projections webpage. DHEC’s Public Health Laboratory is operating extended hours and is testing specimens seven days a week, and the Public Health Laboratory’s current timeframe for providing results to health care providers is 24-48 hours.

Percent Positive
The total number of individual test results reported to DHEC yesterday statewide was 6,635 (not including antibody tests) and the percent positive was 8.2%.

Hospital Bed Occupancy
Hospitals report their information each day to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services by way of TeleTracking, and that same reporting is also provided to DHEC. Click here to view data from today's TeleTracking report.

COVID-19 Information
For the latest information related to COVID-19 visit scdhec.gov/COVID-19. Visit scdmh.net for stress, anxiety and mental health resources from the S.C. Department of Mental Health.

*As new information is provided to the department, some changes in cases may occur. Cases are reported based on the person’s county of residence, as it is provided to the department. DHEC’s COVID-19 map will adjust to reflect any reclassified cases.

###


 

  
